README.md, before:

# CSM #

This is the git repository for the CSM project, developed by the Professor Avnir group of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, The Professor Tuvi-Arad group of the Open University,
and The Research Software Company (chelem.co.il)

## Installation ##
Installation instructions can be found in the python Readme

## Citations ##

Please cite CSM using the following:

```
Alon, G., and Tuvi-Arad, I. "Improved algorithms for symmetry analysis: Structure preserving permutations". J. Math. Chem., 56(1), 193–212 (2018).

H. Zabrodsky, S. Peleg and D. Avnir "Continuous Symmetry Measures" J. Am. Chem. Soc., 114, 7843-7851 (1992) 

Chaim Dryzun, Amir Zait and David Avnir “Quantitative Symmetry and Chirality—A Fast Computational Algorithm for Large Structures: Proteins, Macromolecules, Nanotubes, and Unit Cells” J. Comput. Chem., 32, 2526 – 2538, (2011) 
```

## Contact ##

For questions related to the project, contact Professor Inbal Tuvi-Arad at inbaltu@openu.ac.il

For bug reports, contact devora@chelem.co.il

## Release History ##

New CSM (Python based):

See the Python Readme for a complete version history.

Old CM (C++ based):

* 2.0.1 - Using CMake to compile CSM on multiple platforms
* 2.0 - The 1st open-source CSM version
* 1.0 - Closed-source CSM version

## License ##
This project is provided under the 3-clause BSD license:

Copyright (c) 2014, The Professor Avnir Group, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Commit message:

delete a lot of super out of date code, update the readme to link to the google group

README.md, after:

# CSM #

This is the git repository for the CSM project, developed by the Professor Avnir group of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, The Professor Tuvi-Arad group of the Open University, and The Research Software Company (researchsoftware.co.il)

A more extended readme can be found in the [python readme](python/README.md)


## Citations ##


Please cite CSM using the following:

proteincsm:

> Tuvi-Arad I. and Alon G., "Improved Algorithms for Quantifying the Near Symmetry of Proteins: Complete Side Chains Analysis" (submitted). 
> Dryzun C., Zait A. and Avnir D., "Quantitative Symmetry and Chirality - A Fast Computational Algorithm for Large Structures: Proteins, Macromolecules, Nanotubes, and Unit Cells", J. Comput. Chem., 32, 2526-2538 (2011). 


Exact Algorithm for calculating the CSM of molecules:

> Alon G. and Tuvi-Arad I., "Improved algorithms for symmetry analysis: Structure preserving permutations", J. Math. Chem., 56(1), 193-212 (2018).

Original Code by Avnir and coworkers:

> Pinsky M., Dryzun C., Casanova D., Alemany P., Avnir D., "Analytical Methods for Calculating Continuous Symmetry Measures and the Chirality Measure", Journal of Computational Chemistry 29(16): 2712-2721 (2008).

> Zabrodsky H., Peleg S., Avnir D., "Continuous symmetry measures", Journal of the American Chemical Society 114(20): 7843-7851 (1992).


## Contact ##

For questions about the code, feature requests, and bug reports, feel free to use the csm google group: https://groups.google.com/g/csm-openu/


## License ##
This project is provided under the 3-clause BSD license:

Copyright (c) 2014, The Professor Avnir Group, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
